Installation

Warning: The instructions on

  Safety

   related to the

  rc_cube

   must be read and understood prior to installation.

The

rc_cube

 offers multiple Gigabit Ethernet interfaces:

One interface labeled "external" for connecting the device to a local
computer network, and

up to four interfaces labeled "sensor<N>" for connecting one or more
3D cameras such as the rc_visard or rc_viscore or Basler blaze sensor
(see Connection of cameras, Section \ref{installation:sect-camera-
connection}).

All other Ethernet ports are disabled.

For commissioning, operation, or troubleshooting the user can connect
input devices such as a mouse and a keyboard as well as a computer
screen directly to the

rc_cube

. However, this is optional as the functionality of the

rc_cube

 is fully accessible via the local network it is connected to.

Note: If a screen is used on the

  rc_cube

  , it must be connected before booting, or the

  rc_cube

   must be restarted to activate the screen.

Software license

Every

rc_cube

 device ships with a USB dongle for licensing and protection of the
installed software packages. The purchased software licenses are
installed on and are bound to this dongle and its ID.

The functionality of the

rc_cube

 can be enhanced anytime by

upgrading the license

, e.g., for optionally available software modules.

Note: The

  rc_cube

   requires to be rebooted whenever the installed licenses have
  changed.

Note: The dongle ID and the license status can be retrieved via the

  rc_cube

  's various interfaces such as the System ‣ Firmware & License page
  of the

  Web GUI

  .

Note: For the software components to be properly licensed, the USB
  dongle must be plugged to the

  rc_cube


  before power up

  .

Note: The

  rc_cube

   requires to be rebooted, whenever the license dongle is plugged to
  or unplugged from the device.

Power up

Note: The

  rc_cube I

   does not come with a power supply. A separate 24V/20Amp (e.g. top
  hat rail) power supply is required.

The

rc_cube

 is booted by using the power switch on the device. If a computer
screen is connected it will display the

rc_cube

's Web GUI when the boot process is finished.

Note: For successful operation please make sure that the

  rc_visard

   being connected to the

  rc_cube

   is powered and booted.

Discovery of rc_cube devices

Roboception

rc_cube

 devices that are powered up and connected to the local network or
directly to a computer can be found using the standard GigE Vision®
discovery mechanism.

Roboception offers the open-source tool "rcdiscover-gui", which can be
downloaded free of charge from

http://www.roboception.com/download

 for Windows and Linux. The tool's Windows version consists of a
single executable for Windows 7 and Windows 10, which can be executed
without installation. For Linux an installation package is available
for Ubuntu.

At startup, all available GigE Vision® devices -- including

rc_cube

 devices -- are listed with their names, serial numbers, current IP
addresses, and unique MAC addresses. The discovery tool finds all
devices reachable by global broadcasts. Misconfigured devices that are
located in different subnets than the application host may also be
listed. A tickmark in the discovery tool indicates whether devices are
actually reachable via a web browser.


After successful discovery, a double click on the device row opens the

Web GUI

 of the device in the operating system's default web browser. Google
Chrome or Mozilla Firefox are recommended as web browser.

Resetting configuration

Note: The "rcdiscover-gui" resetting mechanism is currently not
  implemented for

  rc_cube

   devices.

Network configuration

The

rc_cube

 requires an Internet Protocol (

IP

) address for communication with other network devices. The IP address
must be unique in the local network, and can be set either manually
via a user-configurable persistent IP address, or automatically via

DHCP

. If none of these IP configuration methods apply, the

rc_cube

 falls back to a

Link-Local

 IP address.

The network settings of the

rc_visard

 that is used in combination with the

rc_cube

 are automatically configured when the

rc_visard

 is connected to the

rc_cube

.

Note: To not conflict with the internal network between the

  rc_cube

   and the connected

  rc_visard

  , the IP address assigned to the

  rc_cube

   in the local network must not be in the range of "172.23.42.0/24"
  and "172.17.0.0/16".

Following the

GigE Vision

® standard, the priority of IP configuration methods on the

rc_cube

 is

   Persistent IP (if enabled)

   DHCP (if enabled)

   Link-Local


Options for changing the

rc_cube

's network settings and IP configuration are:

   the System ‣ Network page of the rc_cube's Web GUI -- if it is
   reachable in the local network already, see Web GUI\:(Section
   \ref{webgui:sect-web-gui})

   any configuration tool compatible with GigE Vision® 2.0, or
   Roboception's command-line tool gc_config. Typically, these tools
   scan for all available GigE Vision® devices on the network. All
   rc_cube devices can be uniquely identified by their serial number
   and MAC address, which are both printed on the device.

   temporarily changing or completely resetting the rc_cube's network
   configuration via Roboception's rcdiscover-gui tool, see Discovery
   of rc_cube devices\:(Section \ref{installation:sect-discovery-of-
   rcvisard-devices})

Note: The command-line tool "gc_config" is part of Roboception's
  open- source convenience layer "rc_genicam_api", which can be
  downloaded free of charge for Windows and Linux from

  http://www.roboception.com/download

  .

Host name

The

rc_cube

's host name is based on its serial number, which is printed on the
device, and is defined as "rc-cube-<serial number>".

Automatic configuration (factory default)

The Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (

DHCP

) is preferred for setting an IP address. If DHCP is active on the

rc_cube

, which is the factory default, the device tries to contact a DHCP
server at startup and every time the network cable is being plugged
in. If a DHCP server is available on the network, the IP address is
automatically configured.

In some networks, the DHCP server is configured so that it only
accepts known devices. In this case, the Media Access Control address
(

MAC address

), which is printed on the device label, needs to be configured in the
DHCP server. At the same time, the

rc_cube

's host name can also be set in the Domain Name Server (

DNS

). Both MAC address and host name should be sent to the network
administrator for configuration.

If the

rc_cube

 cannot contact a DHCP server within about 15 seconds after startup,
or after plugging in the network cable, it assigns itself a unique IP
address. This process is called

Link-Local

. This option is especially useful for connecting the

rc_cube

 directly to a computer. The computer must be configured for Link-
Local as well. Link-Local might already be configured as a standard
fallback option, as it is under Windows 10. Other operating systems
such as Linux require Link-Local to be explicitly configured in their
network managers.

Manual configuration

Specifying a persistent, i.e. static IP address manually might be
useful in some cases. This address is stored on the

rc_cube

 to be used on device startup or network reconnection. Please make
sure the selected IP address, subnet mask and gateway will not cause
any conflicts on the network.

Warning: The IP address must be unique within the local network and
  within the local network's range of valid addresses. Furthermore,
  the subnet mask must match the local network; otherwise, the

  rc_cube

   may become inaccessible. This can be avoided by using automatic
  configuration as explained in

  Automatic configuration (factory default)

  .

If this IP address cannot be assigned, e.g. because it is already used
by another device in the network, IP configuration will fall back to
automatic configuration via

DHCP

 (if enabled) or a

Link-Local

 address.

Connection of cameras

Depending on the

rc_cube

 model, two or more 3D cameras can be connected to the Ethernet ports
labelled

sensor0

,

sensor1

, etc.

The

rc_cube S

 has one 2.5 Gigabit Ethernet port for connecting up to two sensors,
e.g.

connecting one rc_visard without additional hardware

connecting two rc_visard devices via a separate 2.5Gbit switch

connecting one rc_viscore via a separate 2.5Gbit switch

connecting one blaze via a separate 2.5Gbit switch

The

rc_cube I

 has four 1 Gigabit Ethernet ports for connecting up to four sensors,
e.g.

connecting up to four rc_visard devices without additional hardware

connecting up to two rc_viscore devices without additional hardware

connecting up to two blaze sensors devices without additional hardware

It is also possible to connect 3D cameras of different types to an

rc_cube

, if the number of Ethernet ports permits. However, the

rc_cube S

 cannot process more than two sensors at the same time, the

rc_cube I

 not more than four.

Warning: The

  rc_viscore

   or Basler blaze sensor must not be connected via a 1Gbit switch or
  slower, as this leads to severe loss of images.

The

rc_cube

 offers up to four software

camera pipelines

 for processing data from the connected sensors. The configuration of
the camera pipelines is explained in

Camera pipelines

.

Basler blaze sensors

After connecting the Basler blaze sensor, it can take up to about one
minute until it is found. Upon first connection of the sensor to the

rc_cube

, the sensor must be calibrated before it can be used. Calibration can
be done through the Web GUI on the page

Camera calibration

 under

Configuration

 in the respective pipeline. After storing the calibration, it will
persistently reside on the

rc_cube

 and automatically be used whenever the sensor is connected to the

rc_cube

 again, regardless of the port or pipeline.
